Just going to do a quick one hour stream
I think. Um just a little bit before
dinner. A little bit of time. Mostly I
just want to kind of get myself in the
mindset of what we're going to be
working on tomorrow. I'm doing a full
day stream tomorrow on this.
I think we were looking at multiree,
right? Yeah.
Okay, let's let's figure this out then.
Um I think
Operation not permitted when stream is
cool.
Hey Roger, how's it going? Just doing a
quick little stream.
Be here about an hour. We're going to
fix a couple quick things with Puffer.
Uh well, of course with Puffer, we're
going to fix a couple things with the um
multi-discrete sampling kernel.
And yeah, that's pretty much it. And
then I'll be alive all day tomorrow.
Mama agents.
Why is this
cuda out of memory?
Well,
agents. Oh, this is all fine.
It's got to be making a bajillion agents
or something weird, right?
see if the shape is correct.
Agent sandboxes.
Huh. Yeah, but they're doing it weird
with language models, man.
What I do here is very different.
64.
Isn't that really big?
Wait. Observation. No, that's fine.
4096.
I created it from scratch. What is it? I
think you got um
a message eaten on YouTube.
Okay. So, it's probably the train off is
weird, right? Hey, Liberty.
I'm doing well. Quick little stream
here.
we don't want debug equals one.
Forget it's very weird.
The uh the C++ torch debugging is kind
of a pain.
Really, a lot of the annoyances come
from torch. How's health? Pretty good. I
ran um 7 minute pace 5k today, so
probably back to like 90%.
Okay. So, this is not getting called
slash the debugger is broken. One of the
two.
start going to the gym, steing eggs all
day.
Any other besides protein powder?
I mean,
unless you have a very good appetite,
having a protein powder is usually a
good idea.
You know, I make my hot chocolate my
protein hot chocolate in the morning.
I screw up here.
I'm pretty tired. I did my uh my 5K and
I did about an hour and a half worth of
lifting.
The thing is diet advice is very
individual because it entirely depends
on whether you need to uh gain weight or
lose weight and whether you have a high
appetite or low appetite.
Like it's going to be completely
different depending on those things.
Like for me there have been points where
literally just Eat as much ice cream as
possible has been actually good diet
advice.
Okay. How are we not calling this
function at all? Huh?
Yeah, that's pretty much where I started
off in um you get your calories in
however you get them. Hitting protein
for the day is not that hard if you eat
some meat and have a shake. Hitting
calories can be much harder. um
that mug of hot chocolate, there's a
recipe on Twitter where I would make it
with uh with like a cup of heavy cream.
So, you can get 1,000 calories into a
mug of hot chocolate that will barely
fill you up at all.
I think that that's probably somewhat
healthier than um
just eating a ton of ice cream.
There are also dedicated like masking
shakes that are reasonably high calorie
as well.
But I think for the density of it, the
hot chocolate kind of wins.
I think protein on surplus is easy.
Um, so it's not necessarily easy hyper
because the if you have a low appetite,
the surplus itself is hard.
and vegetarian. Yes. So, Hyper, I ran a
1,500 calorie per day diet uh over the
summer while running 40 miles a week of
pure hills and also lifting
and doing my normal research. And it
wasn't that hard because I wasn't even
that hungry.
You know, maybe the last couple weeks I
was pretty darn fatigued, but that was
about it.
Now, if you try to get me to run a 1500
calorie a day surplus, I will not be
able to function
because I'm just like constantly bloated
from too much food.
Derek from research
creatine.
Uh creatine is apparently very good.
Yes. I have not found any form of
creatine I can tolerate.
It just completely re it completely
destroys my digestion.
So I've tried a few different times with
a few different forms and it's just
never worked.
Sleep apnea also sucks. Get that [ __ ]
fixed immediately. You cannot be a
functional person with sleep apnea.
That's like
I mean that's like one of those you go
fix that before you do anything else cuz
obviously you can't do anything else
before that. Duh.
Oh, okay. I'm dumb here, right? So,
yeah, of course this isn't getting
called. Fine. That's 100% fine.
When did he grow his beard? He didn't.
He's been lazy shaving.
That's literally it, man. I've been lazy
shaving.
Probably be shaved this weekend. And I
need a haircut as well because I have
about two times too much hair.
Wait, hang on. How hard was it to remove
junk
is so much easier.
So, me wanting junk food, not hard at
all. Um, I just
like go to a diner, man. You want like
good food that's relatively healthy,
just like go get stuff from a diner.
You won't really care about the fast
food. Um, it's just not that good.
Now, cooking I still don't do. You don't
have to cook your own food in order to
have things be cheap or easy. Like there
are other things you can do. Depends
where you live. I suppose
what's the best diet to function
properly? Uh, what did I have today? So,
I had I didn't have time to have my
protein shake this morning, but normally
I will have um I make like a big mug of
hot chocolate with two cups of whole
milk, a little bit of cocoa powder, and
two scoops of protein. It's 500
something calories with 66 gram of
protein. And if I'm training, then I go
train and I will go over to there's like
a diner there that I will go over to for
brunch. I'll get myself like good
skillet, some potatoes, eggs, ham, stuff
like that, some coffee, maybe an extra
bowl of soup.
Um, and well, while I'm here in Florida,
that's pretty much what I have around is
I have a bunch of diners around. Uh,
dinner,
usually like a steak.
Uh, sometimes I'll get if I want if I
need more calories, sometimes I'll get
like a chicken parmesan or something.
Not too much of that since it's fried.
pasta, whatever.
Don't really eat fruit. I get plenty of
vegetables, though.
Florida cave, man. Florida's good.
Florida is very chill.
Yeah, you need to fix that, dude. like
you cannot function. You cannot be a
functional person with sleep apnea. It
does not work.
At least a good chunk of the time that
can be fixed.
Okay. So this is not training. It is
running slowly. 1.7 mil. No kernel.
Let's go enable the kernels.
But I don't know how this would have
changed.
What does um what do we do in the train
forward?
Oh, I see. So, it's still going to get
this. It gets this crap
is the problem,
right?
One of these stupid things is like
massive, right?
I don't think what else this would be.
I think it's probably just some dumb
transpose making like a giant matrix.
I'm gonna have to figure out what we do
with this as well.
Like I said, I just wanted to do a
little bit of basic stuff to get my mind
back on these problems today, you know,
until dinner.
And then after that,
we got all day tomorrow. Yeah, that's
Yeah, I don't see any stupid big
tensors.
Something's accumulating though.
Oh, wait. Holy. We broke a thing.
We absolutely broke a thing.
Ah,
did without cudigraphs.
it's scrapping this crap, right?
Yeah, the prints aren't needed. The
shapes are fine.
I can put them on CPU as well. That's
fine.
forward call.
It'll take the CPU version.
It's kind of funny though that it takes
um
Well,
it's fine though because if it gets
graphed,
it just gets hardcoded like the the
graph ops get replayed. Exactly.
Anyways,
I have no idea if that's the actual
issue.
I don't see anything there that would be
iffy though. Like you should be able to
graph everything else there.
What's this? Act size of CPU.
I shouldn't need both, but we'll leave
it for now.
Yep. This is what we expect.
This is why I'm using blog for this
because it's like everything is so
incredibly redundant right now.
I do want to at least minimize the
redundancy. It's going to be it's going
to end up being way more redundancy than
I would normally like,
but we're going to at least get the code
to be something relatively good.
It will at least be way better than the
uh the code that's actually in torch.
But that's not exactly a high bar.
We'll find some other thing.
So the uh the key here, right, is this
is kind of a really nice example of um
why it is such a pain in the ass.
Like torch is such a pain in the ass
because most of this crap here for
multi-discrete it's actually simpler to
just do this in a custom furn
like this is if you read through the
logic here and how things have to be
done it's complete mess.
Is this with kernels?
Well, that's with CUDA graphs on, right?
So, it doesn't actually train correctly,
but it does run
a reasonable enough speed.
Well, this is now going to be very
annoying because how do we see
why it is not training?
Yeah, that's going to be very
irritating, right?
you know what we should do.
No, I can actually I know how we're
going to make this work.
Go to GDB. I have no idea how it's
working.
Me neither.
So, I'm going to let it do this. So,
what the uh the idea here, right
95 45. So now this becomes a 45 dim
action space
and we should be able to solve this.
Okay, look. You see that? Trains
perfectly right there.
Episode length. This is what we want. It
trains perfectly in seconds.
I don't like Well,
yeah, we'll start looking at it. I have
to figure out what I want to do to
figure this out.
At least we know this end is good.
Trains in seconds. Super fast.
Oh, you know what we can do
here?
Uh, this is debugging more than just one
individual kernel though, Liberty.
In fact, it might not even be the
colonel. Let's go check.
Okay. So, it is in the kernel.
It is in fact in the kernel.
It's 15 and one.
Yeah, 15's correct.
What this act size thing is
a little is a bit silly.
So it speeds up my workflow a lot for
this specific thing that I'm doing
because
everything is so heavily redundant in
here. So anytime I got want to go change
something, I don't get to just go change
something in one place. I have to change
stuff in like between five and 10
places.
If I were writing something more
standalone or uh that didn't depend on
so many other things really,
I'd end up with way less code and
editing manually is a lot easier.
So, it would be a lot less of a big
deal.
Okay, fair enough. It wants some values.
That's fine.
The way this panel is set up looked fine
to me when I I reviewed it.
though, I suppose if I think about it
right, like puffer lip is a bigger
change to how I used to do RL than um
any of these language models are to how
I program.
That's kind of a cool little comparison.
See, but that's not going to help.
Stupid clock.
I mean, I may as well I'll give it the
full output, but I don't think it's
going to be able to do anything with
this.
Okay, it does actually take the paste.
I don't think that's going to help. Um,
I think we just have to go check
this kernel most likely
dex,
right? Sum to log problem.
Wait, sum to log problem.
Is this how it's supposed to work?
Is log prop supposed to be the sum
by training time. It's all zero.
Interesting.
Oh, hang on.
Else
ah
graph value
Wait, did I do something incredibly
stupid here or just like moderately
stupid?
I think I might have just like screwed
up. I think I might know what this is.
you will debug. Also, star this repo if
you haven't already. Please, it's We're
almost to 5k stars. It's free. It really
helps.
Go back to um
this maybe.
was correct before
still worth iting
let me put it this way. I don't think AI
has changed
uh has changed education that much.
So, whatever was true a few years ago is
still true.
Let's put it that way.
This is a fine thing to do. It's just
checking roll out buffers.
It's probably some stupid indexing thing
I just missed yesterday.
Can go print some stuff. Sure.
I'll I'll go let this try this and then
if not I will go um I'll start messing
with the kernel.
It pretty much has to just be some
stupid indexing thing in this kernel.
Look like zeros.
MB log prop zeros.
It could also the thing that's annoying
is it could also be No, the buffer logic
actually would have to be correct
because it works without the kernel.
Painful to debug.
Yeah, I'm being too lazy at the moment
though.
I should just start looking at it
because I mean I'll let it try this, but
it's looking at the wrong areas right
now.
What does looking at it entail for
something like this?
Mostly what I just described. Um,
probably some looking at the data that's
coming out of the sample logics. I could
probably like go grab the earlier
version of sample logits and apply the
uh that version, right? And see if the
outputs match for the case where you
have one discrete action. Um I could
look at the kernel code manually. I
could side by side it with the original.
Like there are a bunch of things I can
do.
I should at the very least start side by
siding this.
The thing is like it's actually a very
simple change to this kernel
and like there's also the new launch
function and all the other [ __ ]
that makes it um
everything is so redundant right in this
setup. It's actually quite annoying
every time I have to go look at it.
Yeah. So this was like the original
sample logic kernel for single discrete.
So you can see here if you just sort of
map this code
like literally the change here is you
add this loop.
So now it's a loop over action heads
right that's the only change.
So I mean like
plus equals. Yeah. So presumably
it's some dumb indexing bug or some dumb
stride bug or something like
This is like one of those cases where um
The multi-discrete kernel is actually
way simpler to think about than the
torch operations.
You're supposed to add some blog props.
You are
logic offsets look sus
does it.
It starts at zero
and then it gets incremented by x sizes.
actions are populated.
Good question.
When do we compute actions from this
sample logic kernel
sampled action?
Yeah, you get it right here.
It could also be that it passes the uh
the bugs in No, it can't be that the bug
is in the environment because we know it
works without furnace.
So, it actually has to be here.
Is it still om if I do um
we'll check without graphing next. I
think that's still om.
Wait rollouts dot
Uh, no. I don't think this is it. Hey,
E10.
Fixing a multi-discrete sampling kernel
as usual. I've actually, the more I've
used these models, the more I think that
they are useful but incredibly stupid.
These are like not remotely superhuman
programmers at all. They're incredibly
stupid and they really
like they're certainly not doing
anything resembling thinking.
I mean like literally
one or twostep logical leap. No basic
ass. Like you even literally tell it and
no. Still no.
It still can't even be roll out actions.
Yeah. No.
let's go double check one thing we can
do real quick.
It's in default thinking which is not
thinking.
Oh, this is the wrong term.
That's completely the wrong term.
Wait, what?
Uh, I have no idea how this freaking
happened.
sample batch. It is the number of
observations trained on per second.
Well, it's actually the number of
observations sampled per second.
You can technically train on each one
more or less. So it's the number of
observation. It's the amount of data
collected from the environment in
observations
and it includes the sampling includes
the time taking for training. Okay.
There we go. This is what we needed.
Right.
This still trains.
Doesn't it matter based on the
algorithmic choices?
Well, yes. There are lots of ways to
game it, which is why the target was 10
million steps per second with a
reasonable batch size, right? If I make
if I do 32,000 environments, then I
immediately am going to be like 20 mil
or whatever.
But I'm doing it with 8K environments
and 32K mini batches. that was the
target
because that gives me basically um
like for our simple experiment
configuration that gives us about a 3x
improvement over puffer 3
What's this? Plus H.
Where's H?
Numb actions. Okay.
X times dumb actions.
Still looks fine.
I don't write tons of tests. I write
tests for like
things that should obviously be tested.
AI likes test. The [ __ ] is that supposed
to mean in this? Like it's a kernel,
dude.
We can verify this is correct very
easily.
It's not correct at the moment.
The other thing I could suppose would be
works well. We're not doing [ __ ] TDD.
I've had this conversation with you
before.
I'm trying to think how the memory
layout looks with this. So,
How do you think about testing in
general? I test things that need to
obviously be tested and I don't like I
don't write tests by default. So do you
think kernel correctness should have a
test when it's like the op that if it's
numerically bad your whole training is
screwed and you won't know why and it's
also really easy to write a test for
that. Yeah, that sounds like it should
have a test. Um, if you're doing heavy
performance testing, right, heavy
profiling, do you think that you should
have some performance tests for various
critical sections of the code?
Yeah, that seems pretty important,
right?
There a few other ops where it's just
like, oh gez, this piece of code is
really complicated and it's verifiable
and like if it breaks, we're screwed.
You hate DDT because it's boring. I hate
it because it's brain dead, dude.
It literally does nothing for you other
than ensure that you have way more test
code than you need while providing
absolutely no benefits otherwise
whatsoever.
Some of the buggiest repos I've ever
seen were written by engineers that are
like super heavy on tests and have
dozens more like dozens of times more
tests than I've had in any of my
projects ever. The code still sucks and
breaks all the time.
Your software is not testable. It's easy
to break. No. See, that's the lie. Tests
don't prevent you from having bugs.
The test of puffer liib is did you break
training or did you is there a speed
regression? Right? That's the test.
There's no other test that you can write
that's going to guarantee whether or not
you broke training or whether or not you
made the thing faster or slower.
What the hell is this thing trying to
do?
Okay, this thing is dumb. Um,
Let me just think I want to do with this
stupid thing.
We're sure this works for um
for single discree, right?
Yeah, you can't design a whole system up
front.
I want like this is a very unlikely bug,
but it seems like this is true.
Oh, wait a second. This worked before,
right?
Yeah. Yeah, this worked before. Now it's
not working with colonel's false.
Okay, never mind then. Right, that's
very different.
I could have sworn when I ran this
before.
We just take this off to be sure. It
also could have broken graphing, I
suppose.
Okay. So,
never mind.
Uh the earlier thing that I ran, I don't
know, something must not have been
recompiled. That's weird.
So, yeah, it doesn't actually work.
Multi- discrete the path doesn't work.
So, it's not the kernel, which makes
sense because the colonel looked fine.
I could have sworn that worked before
though. Something's
not right there.
I'd believe that we just totally screwed
up the buffers. That'd be consistent
with the earlier thing as well.
It's really weird that that was silent
that um that copy
So apparently like the copy underscore
op is sort of weird
um and what it will and will not let you
do.
It probably just calls me copy async
without doing any checks actually.
would be my guess
to be fair. That's what it should do.
It's inconsistent with the rest of torch
though.
Okay, so there we go. So there at least
one of these changes was not correct.
on puffer today. Is it meant for doing a
fish on small models? Yes. Can be used
for fish on giant language model. No, we
don't do LMS.
We do um everything except LMS
pretty much. We're working on small
models. We're not going to get to be
ridiculously small. Like sure, we could
make thousand per models way faster than
this. We're not going to do that. Um,
but anywhere from like 100,000 to
millions in like the millions range is
what we're doing. Uh, you can solve a
huge number of problems in that range
and you are mostly bound by just getting
fast sims and actually having hardware
efficient implementations. So that's
what we do.
typing for dimensions. It's a little
more complicated than you'd expect when
you try it.
How's the weather in Florida?
Uh, I mean, it's nice in the middle of
the winter. That's about it. That's why
that's when I'm here,
you know.
I mean, the main thing with Puffer Alec
is like
it's literally a thousand times faster
than uh most of what is out there. Like
that's not me patting the stats. It's
actually a thousand times faster. That's
kind of an underell in many cases. Um,
so we can just start solving we can just
solve problems in seconds that would
have taken months during my PhD and just
do that out of the box. And uh we are
expecting like within about a year or so
we should be able to solve sort of an
additional class worth of difficulty
also just about out of the box. So
there's some algorithmic improvements
around this that are pretty general
across model size. Uh there's some like
simulation engineering.
Um there's a whole bunch of
infrastructure and tooling. There's some
optimization for smaller models, but
it's pretty much just comes down to
being more aggressive about uh
eliminating overhead than anything else.
That's really the only thing that's
specialized to small models.
You don't really ever need very big
models for the type of RL we do. Go to
assault with 168 mil.
For context,
Thomas video games or robots.
Yeah, those are a couple examples.
Where's the overhead come from?
Literally everything, anything that a
meta engineer has touched has overhead.
So all of PyTorch
[clears throat]
and then of course um anything that a
PhD student has touched also like there.
So that's all of uh the entire RL stack
of software for you between those two.
Oh yeah, please do start the puffer on
GitHub if you haven't already. It does
help me out a lot. We're almost to
5,000.
Okay. Okay. Yeah, there's the the
transpose on the actions. And then the
log problem sum is also wrong now
because it was transposed.
Why the heck it's transposed?
I got dinner in like 10 minutes. But um
yeah, this is a start.
If we don't fix this tonight, we'll
start the stream tomorrow fixing
multi-discreet
and then uh probably fixing a lot of the
other end findings up
and
uh we'll probably do some cleanup around
that. We'll see if we can get like I
think if we can try to get maybe a
semi-stable like pre-release that you
guys can play around with tomorrow. I
think we might be all already at that
point. Still a lot's going to change.
So, no promises on stability.
Yeah. So, that did not freaking fix it
at all. Good job.
Will the new protein changes be
included? Of course.
act sizes?
Wait a second.
Data pointer N64T.
It's a safe cast, right?
Weird.
Waiting on 40 drop to reweep 2048.
And when is it 40? Boro is done when
it's done, guys. I can only work on it
so much. Um, I'm doing an all day stream
on it tomorrow. We'll have a decent
pre-release. I say like a decent
pre-release hopefully tomorrow
in the sense that you guys can actually
go like look at the code and it won't be
a complete disaster and there will be
some environments that train out of the
box. Uh, beyond that,
it just is going to take some work.
Um, the puffer lib C++ file is a
thousand lines of code.
Uh, we have
a [ __ ] ton of kernel code. There's the
modules file. There's the models file.
It's like probably 5,000 plus lines of
new C++ in this update. Um,
and I don't want it to be 5,000 lines of
C++ either. I don't want to ship this
much crap. A lot of it's really
redundant boilerplate. It's just very
tricky to figure out how to make it less
redundant.
So, I'm working on that as well. But
like we have several different language
barriers here that there's uh redundancy
because you have to go across the
barriers, right? So there's the C to uh
C++ via DLL. There's the DLL boundary.
There's the CUDA to C++ boundary.
There's the C++ to Python boundary.
There's a whole bunch of different
stuff.
Not to mention all the crap that uh Lib
torch requires.
It's kind of a mess.
And this is the function it's based off
of.
take you to write the CUDA kernel.
Uh the sample logic kernel actually was
contributed. Peru wrote the original one
of it and I just had to port it over
from his repo.
The multi-discrete kernel is just a for
loop addition.
But like the kernel is not the issue
right now. I was wrong about that.
It's actually just the porting of the um
the torch C++ the torch python to lib
torch somehow.
Optimize po kernel. Yeah, it's very
limited though, right? I actually could
probably use some of the stuff in it.
What was that library called?
He had like the really small networks
repo, right? Oh, yeah. This one.
in puffer lip. Oh, that one. Yeah. So,
there are a couple kernels. I asked him
to go actually run the correctness tests
on those because he didn't actually run
the checks to see if the uh the
improvements were like breaking numeric.
So I said to go run the checks and run
training real quick.
I thought you meant this thing. This is
Joe Nas.
I mean it's got what is it? Source.
Where is it? source
that stupid thing.
Anyways, there is some um
I think the whole thing's like fernal or
whatever. I forget what this is.
Okay, I'm kind of like Well, it's dinner
time anyways. Um,
I don't want to leave this exactly like
this, though.
I'll probably just have to like check
this against the torch implementation.
It's a little The thing is it's annoying
to check because it's RNG dependent,
right?
It's probably the stupid train
operation. Anyways, that's the one
that's fancy. Anyways, folks, um I got
to get dinner. So, I will be live all
day tomorrow. We'll continue on this
then. I'll see if I can get us a stable
version.
If you're new around here, I stream all
my dev on Puffer. High performance RL
started with Puffer. Beat him a star
helps the project a lot. Join Discord if
you want to get involved with dev follow
and extra more RL content.